## Awesome Possum
Awesome Possum is a project that my friend and classmate made for a class. We decided on using Unreal Engine since none of us have used it before and wanted the experience. In this game, you are totally a real person trying to get to your real person job. You are totally not 3 possums in a trench coat. Using friends you find along the way, you need to get to your real person job. This game is a demo currently and will be moving to Unity before more substatial progress is made. <br>

### Grapple Hook
The main task I was assigned was to make a grappling hook. I followed a tutorial that showed how to make a cable go from the player's hand to an object and pull you towards it. However, I had to modify it to get the player to swing from it instead. While I knew how to do this from my experience in Unity, I had to learn how to do it in Unreal. After searching, I found a physics component that would allow me to swing, but I was using the blueprint function of Unreal since it was new to me. <br>
I then figured out through forum posts, that there is a bug from 2014 that prevents the grappling hook from swinging becuase the physics component requires one of the following for each object: the object itself, an attach point, and a bone. The attach point and bone are done through the model itself and would require more work from the project leader who was also doing level design. The last option, choosing objects themselves, is where the bug is. In the blueprint editor, the nodes for attaching an object to the physics component for the swinging motion did not exist and I was not confident in being able to meld blueprint and C++ together in order to meet the deadline. <br>
In the end, we decided on keeping the pull only grappling hook for the demo, but decided to import everything over to Unity if we were to continue the project. <br>

### Friend Pick Up
Some of your character's friends will be found through the map and will help you get to your real job. I was also tasked with creating a system to pick up your friends. Originally, I used a sphere collider, but realized objects in the corner were hard to grab and switched to a line collider. I set tags for each friend and had the blueprint make sure that if one of the tagged friends was hit by the collider, their abilities would unlock and the model would disappear from view. <br>

### Bomb Frog
One of your friends is Bomb Frog. He is quite literally a frog, that is also a bomb. He cannot be hurt by his skills, but still needs to be thrown like a bomb. He is used to help break through walls and doors that are in the way. For the coding side, I used a similar feature as the pick up and used a line collider and tags. This simple system is similar to Unity's Raycasting and I have a lot of experience with Raycasting. For our use, we could draw the line collider, but the overall game would have a crosshair to show where you are pointing. After pressing the assigned key, Bomb Frog would check to make sure the wall or door needs to be removed to prevent unnecessary damage. If a door or wall can be destoryed, he will be thrown at the wall and destroy it. This was done by the line collider checks with tags and then turning the objects off after playing the bomb frog animation.

### Snake Grapple
The other friend currently in the game is a snake would will be the grapple hook. The snake uses the same pick up system and implements the grappling hook mechanics. I attempted to make the snake be the grappling hook cable, but the model would again need to be changed to allow the cable to be in the shape or size of the snake. For the snake, the attach points would be bird nests since they would have bird eggs in them. Unfortunately for the demo, the Snake Grapple is only a 3D object on the ground and does not show up whne using the grappling hook.