## Monarch Odyssey
From August 2024 to December 2024, I was a part of the Monarch Odyssey team. Monarhc Odyssey is a Pokemon Go clone that will help students get acustomed to the layout of ODU and add some minigames and objectives to increase engagement on campus. <br>
For this group, I was chosen to be the Project Lead and Programming Team Lead. The Project Lead is in charge of all the team leads and helps them understand the overall goal of each sprint. The team leads are in charge of the team members and also help them understand the overall goals for their specific team. I was also given a co-lead since I would have a lot on my plate juggling two leadership responsibilites and being one of only 4 members on the programming team.

### Project Lead
As project lead, I found that the writing portion of the game was done. The 2D and 3D portions were close to completion. Since a majority of the Game Design and Devleopment program are students in the Design track, there was a clear lack of programmers throughout this project's previous phases. After going through the project, there were no clear overall goals or a roadmap of changes and additions to be made. I took initative and began fixing some immediate things for programming and directing the other teams to work on tasks that will be needed regardless of if the overall direction changes. I was correct about the 2D and 3D teams' directions. After meeting with the program advisor and creator of the project, I understood what each group needed to work on. I also decided after that meeting to make the last sprint of the semester be focused on setting up the next semester to have an easier transition than we did. I added the write ups to the Teams chats for the next semester to read.

### Programming Team Lead
As the programming team lead, I had myself and three other students. One of the students was better suited to work on audio and sound and allowed him to work on that since there was no soundtrack or game sounds yet. The rest of us worked on several objectives. One of the objectives I wanted to investigate was preparing the game for mobile deployment to iOS and Android. Since these phones all come from different companies, I wanted to make sure that the button size to screen resolution ratio was consistent. Despite spending multiple sprints on this, I still had one of the students make a script to set the button size and locations on application start to be implemented in later semesters. The other student worked on fixing some of the minigames. They were spaghetti coded and needed some uniformity. They also needed some revitalizaiton regarding usability. I took the former while the other student took the latter option. They were able to fix one minigame and began working on another minigame to the best they can since I was still working on my part simultaneously. I was able to give some insights through a message to the next semester on Teams showing what I did and showed where the files were and how to update them with the recommended additions for the minigames.

### Personal Work
The work I did specifically for this project was make an code interface from scratch. I spent a sprint researching the basics and then another spirnt researching how to make one. I managed to make a basic interface and was able to implement it with a test minigame. The other code I made was a PlayerData script to store all of the player informaiton and stats in one place and bring it with the player. The implementaion of bringing the code with the player has not been done, but the idea and information to be gathered is set up. I spent most of my time making sure everyone else was where they needed to be so I do not have much in the way of work done solo.
