## Hi, I'm Noah Boucher. <br>
I am currently searching for my perfect job in programming with C++, C#, or Java. I recently finished my Bachelor's Degree in Game Development and Criticism from Old Dominion University in December 2024! I recieved my Associate Degree in Computer Science at Tidewater Community College (TCC) in May 2023.  <br>
If I'm not doing schoolwork, I am either playing online with friends from high school, expanding my knowledge of 20th and 21st century history, or working on whatever interest I have at the moment. <br>
### My Educational Story
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;In my undergraduate learning of programming concepts and game development, I have learned valuable skills that will be useful for my career. These influential skills have helped me realize that I am ready for a career and will be successful in the job I get after graduation. The main influential skills I learned were the ability to make AI scripts, the ability to quickly grasp complicated topics, and the ability to adapt to new game engines. <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;For my [Programming in Unity class](The-Last-Tank.md), I made an [AI script](AIScript.md) for the enemies in the game. The base project I started with had players control each tank. I changed the game to player versus the computer. For this, I needed to make an AI script for the enemies that would allow them to move, turn, and shoot. Moving was the easiest since the enemies will always move forward to add pressure to the player. Turning was more difficult because I needed to make sure the enemies would turn away from objects enough to not run into them or keep the enemies stuck in a loop. I used a Unity tool called Raycasting to check in a 45 degree arc to the left and right of the front of the enemy. I then managed to get the enemies to turn enough to not get stuck in a loop. For the firing mechanics, I decided to have the enemies face the player and then fire a shot every 1.5 seconds. Combining these took a significant amount of time and really cemented the idea that I could solve a very complex coding problem. I decided to focus on these aspects in my portfolio since they show my abilities well. I also added other scripts and ideas from the project since it helps show how everything goes together to make the final product. The AI script I made was the one I am most proud of for this project and it combined all the programming skills I learned as part of my Associate’s Degree and other undergraduate learning. <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;While at the [Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center](VMASC.md), I was introduced to the concept of networking game objects for games or gamified simulators. Before this internship, I had zero experience with networking concepts and had to learn it from scratch. Despite the complexity of networking, I was able to easily grasp the main ideas of networking. Networking for games or gamified simulators involves several major concepts. The first concept is to determine which information needs to be sent between players and the server. Since there is a limited number of bits to send and receive information, there is no room for information that can be stored elsewhere. For example, player location and rotation needs to be sent, but how to move the object on the other player’s screen does not since it can be stored on the other player’s device. The next major concept is that for each player, there are an exponential number of total player models. For example, if there are two people in a game, then there would need to be four player models. Each player needs a model for their own side, and a model for the side that other people see. And for three players, there is a model for themselves as well as a model for each player, totaling nine. This exponential number of models helps with making sure that each player can see the other and can account for the discrepancy due to lag. Each model will be updated when the information is sent to the respective player. The final major concept of networking is that you need to have constant communication and verification between the server and clients. In order to maximize security and check for disconnected players, the server will give each player a specific id and then ask for it at a constant interval to make sure there is no foul play and that the right person is still connected. These were taught to me at my internship and I was able to use Unity Learn resources to further expand my knowledge and see how it is applied in a real scenario. This information is one of the main points on my portfolio of my time at VMASC. My ability to learn new skills quickly is a very valuable trait for employers and will serve me well when I need to learn concepts I am unfamiliar with. <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;While assisting a fellow student on a [class project](Awesome_Possum.md), I had to learn a new game engine. I have used Unity for most of the games I have made. However, this project was made in Unreal. It is similar to Unity with some major differences, which the company outlines on their documentation area of their website. I used this resource as well as the general knowledge of game engines to quickly learn Unreal and I became proficient in the blueprint programming very quickly. In addition to learning a new game engine, I also had to learn how to make a grappling hook for this project. I looked up a guide online for this and modified it to fit the scope of this project. I then took the information learned to make several other mechanics for the game which boosted my confidence in taking an example and being able to apply it to a wide range of information when combined with my previous knowledge of programming. I mention these details in my portfolio to demonstrate my flexibility when working with new technology to employers. I am confident in my abilities to work on something mostly unfamiliar to me and become quickly accustomed to it. <br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;In my undergraduate learning, I have made great personal strides in my ability to make AI scripts, quickly grasp complicated topics, and adapt to new software. My projects and internships have been the driving force for these concepts and have built my confidence in my ability and that I have grasped the information I was taught. Making an AI script increased my confidence in my ability to create complex code. My ability to understand networking concepts make me secure in knowing that starting a new job will be easy since I can learn quickly. Finally, my ability to use new software will be a major assistant to changes in the field and in my job due to the overall concepts being the same with a different user interface. <br>
### Experience
- I have the most experience with Unity, but have done some small, mostly edificaitonal projects in Unreal. I know C++, Java, and C#. <br>
- I have experience working on top-down, VR, first, and third person games from internships, class assignments, and projects made with my friends. <br>
### Projects Worked (Click on Blue Link to access page)
- [Monarch Odyssey](Monarch_Odyssey.md) <br>
- [Awesome Possum](Awesome_Possum.md) <br>
- [VMASC](VMASC.md) <br>
- [The Last Tank](The-Last-Tank.md) <br>
- [Jefferson Lab](Jefferson-Lab.md) <br>
### Personal Acheivements
- I achieved my Eagle Scout rank in December of 2016 when I was in Boy Scouts of America, and my project was to install chain link fences totaling over 700 linear feet to complete the enclosure of the play field at Saint Matthew's Catholic School in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
I raised over $5000 to pay for materials and led over 40 volunteers over two weekends to install the new fence. Sunbelt Rentals on Executive Blvd. in Chesapeake, Virginia donated over $400 in equipment rentals, 
Lowe's on North Battlefield Blvd. in Chesapeake assisted in purchasing the concrete for the posts,
and Hercules Fence in Norfolk, Virginia assisted me with the purchase of the fence materials and helpful additional information on how to install a chain link fence from their own experiences. <br>
- I volunteer to assist the Virginia Four Wheel Drive Association's Fall Run, held in September and the American Cancer Society's Relay for Life Four Wheel Drive Event, held in April. Both of these events are private guided rides at Oak Ridge Estate and I have donated over 550 hours of my time since 2016 to repair trails, be a trail guide, and complete owner requested projects around the property. <br>

<!---
NBoucher596/NBoucher596 is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
