## Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulaiton Center
From May 2024 to August 2024, I was invited to be a reasearch assistant intern at VMASC. There were three main projects I worked on. I worked on IncredibleBulkVR, a research project to find what makes a good AR game and escape room, and research for networking in games. <br>

### IncredibleBulkVR
IncredibleBulk is a VR game to gain interest in shipbuilding trades for middle and high school students. <br> 
When my fellow intern and I first received the project, there were many bugs and design choices that could be improved. Our first overall goal was to fix the bugs. We both played through the current build and noted down all the bugs we each saw. This was to ensure that we could catch all bugs, even those that are not as common. We combined our lists and used GitHub's task system, similar to Jira or Microsoft Teams, to make a list of bugs to fix and created a priority based on how close to the beginning the bugs are and how much they affect the gameplay. This tier list was created because we were unsure of how long some of these fixes would take and if we would have enough time to fix all the bugs. <br>
After spending 6 weeks working on bugs, we managed to fix most of them, except for a couple that were due to quiet audio files or other similar issues. We started implementing changes we wanted to make including text bubbles, similarities between scenes, and a banner to give credit to those who worked on this project. We both learned a great deal from this project since neither of us had worked with a VR game before. We also got very comfortable with Unity and how the systems work in order to fix bugs. We dealt with spaghetti code and had to make several differnt changes to get bug fixes to work across multiple scenes. <br>
After some audio and graphical updates by a senior developer at VMASC, IncredibleBulkVR was shown off at a convention in Chicago with 8000 students and teachers in attendance. <br>

### The Arkham Asylum Files: Panic in Gotham City
Since my fellow interns and I were all part of a new program at ODU, Game Design and Development, we were tasked with researching the good qualities of both an AR board game, The Arkham Asylum Files, and a book written by [] titled, []. We played through the AR board game and made notes of the good and bad throughout our playthrough. By the time we finished, we had a long list of good and bad with respect to game design, ease of play for the expected ages, age appropriate content, and puzzle difficulty. We compiled these together into a few categories to present. We also used refernces from [] to show how Arkham Asylum Files could be used in an escape room. Finally, we pulled everything together and created a presentation focusing on three aspects: the game itself, the design of the game, and how it relates to escape rooms. This presentaiton was used to assist in securing a $500,000 contract for VMASC to develop a learning escape room for shipbuilding trades.

### Networking Research and Conference
The last project we worked on was more geared toward personal edification. I was given good resources to start with like various Unity Learn project relating to netowrked games. After exploring the projects and receiving a general overview of networking game objects in a multiplayer game, I was confident in my understanding of the topic. To finish my understanding, I attended a virtual Unity Learn conference on Networking for Game Objects and was able to understand what they were discussing. I am very grateful to receive this informaiton as multiplayer is becoming more and more popular among various gamified fields.